Bryan Solis
Prof. Lawrence Sebald
Preliminary Design Project 2


I have read the kernel manual about which functions and files were in-charged of dealing with the networking side of the system. I found some useful information that I could use in order to block certain ports. The folder “/net/socket.c “ contains most of the files that are responsible for the project. I am certain that most of my time, I  will be dealing with this file and the functions.

Function in  socket.c that are important to me:

bind() this function binds the socket to a corresponding address using this system call. I would create some test functions to test this functions and what I can do to block certain ports

connect() this function is basically helping to connect the socket to the address of the server. This also seems to be a good function to start putting tests to see what type of information the parameter are getting. 

accept() this function also seems to be helpfull because sometimes this function can block clients if some requirements are not met. If I could use something like this to block port in other part, It will be very usefull.


In order to keep track of certain requirements like the ports that are blocked or the number of times certain port was tried to be accessed. I will use a linked list to keep track of the ports blocked and the number of times it was block, type of connection TCP/UDP. 

struct portInformation{

	unsigned int* ports;
	int times;
	unsigned char* types;
	struct list_head list;
	
}


For the second part of the project, we have to limit access for a file. I have not find the correct file where the permission are set. I will keep editing this file to see if I can find the correct file to see how i can change permission. So far i have an idea that i will create a struct node to keep track of the files that were made inmmutable and how many times they were accessed.

struct fileInmutable{

	unsigned char* files;
	int times;
	struct list_head list;
		
}


I will keep adding variables inside if need it, but in general thats how it will look like. I will create a linked list to keep track of certain requirements of the project.

NOTE

I know we have to use some type of locking system to help the code give correct output and avoid problems. I was thinking i would use semmaphores and mutex since I used them in project1, i will have to modify them a little to make them work with this project.


